Course Code: CS105
Course Name: Problem Solving through Programming
Syllabus:
Unit 窶的 Introduction
Basic structure of C program, executing a C program.
Constant, variable and data types: Character Set, C Tokens, Keywords and Identifiers,
Constants, Variables, Data Types, Declaration of Variables, Declaration of Storage Class,
Assigning Values to Variables, Defining Symbolic Constants, Declaring a Variable as
Constant, Declaring a Variable as Volatile.
Operators and expressions: Arithmetic Operators, Relational Operators, Logical
Operators, Assignment Operators, Increment and Decrement Operators, Conditional
Operator, Bitwise Operators, Special Operators, Arithmetic Expressions, Evaluation of
Expressions, Precedence of Arithmetic Operators, Operator Precedence and Associativity.
Unit-II Input and Output
Managing Input and output operations: Reading a Character, Writing a Character,
Formatted Input, Formatted Output.
Conditional Branching and Loops: Decision Making with If Statement, Simple If Statement,
The If.....Else Statement, Nesting of If....Else Statements, The Else If Ladder, The Switch
Statement, The ? : Operator, The Goto Statement, The While Statement, The Do
Statement, The For Statement.
Unit 窶的II Arrays
Arrays: One-Dimensional Arrays, Declaration of One-Dimensional Arrays, Initialization of
One-Dimensional Arrays, Two-Dimensional Arrays, Initializing Two-Dimensional Arrays.
Character arrays and Strings: Declaring and Initializing String Variables, Reading Strings
from Terminal, Writing Strings to Screen, Arithmetic Operations on Characters, Putting
Strings Together, Comparison of Two Strings, String-Handling Functions.
Unit 窶的V User Defined Functions and Recursion
Elements of User-Defined Functions, Definition of Functions, Return Values and Their
Types, Function Calls, Function Declaration, Category of Functions, Nesting of Functions.
Recursion: Recursive definition and processes, recursion in C, example of recursion.
Unit 窶天 Pointers and Structures
Understanding Pointers, Accessing the Address of a Variable, Declaring Pointer Variables,
Initialization of Pointer Variables, Accessing a Variable Through its Pointer, Chain of
Pointers, Pointer Expressions.
Structures and Unions: Defining a Structure, Declaring Structure Variables, Accessing
Structure Members, Structure Initialization, Unions.
File management: Defining and Opening a File, Closing a File, Input/Output Operations on
Files.
Text books:
1. E. Balagurusamy, Programming in C, McGraw Hill Education.
2. Herb Schildt, C: The Complete Reference, McGraw Hill
3. Brian W. Kernighan, Dennis M. Ritchie, C Programming Language, Prentice Hall.
References:
1. Stephen Kochan, Programming in C, Sams Publishing.

2. Yashvant Kanetkar, ANSI C Programming: Learn ANSI C step by step, BPB
Publications